.TH YARDCTL 1 "2026-03-06" "yardctl \n" "Shipyard Manual"
.SH NAME
yardctl \- Docker-centered automated deployment tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yardctl
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIFLAGS...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fByardctl\fR (Shipyard) is a docker-centric automated deployment tool that fetches your container orchestrations from Git repositories (including via private SSH keys), automatically discovers Docker Compose stacks inside them, and manages their entire lifecycle.
.PP
By using \fByardctl\fR, you can track GitOps configurations. It includes a built-in systemd timer to regularly keep the deployed compose stacks in sync with their upstream repository state.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Show the help text, displaying available commands.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS "Initialization & Maintenance"
.TP
\fByardctl init\fR
Sets up \fB/etc/yardctl\fR and \fB/var/lib/yardctl\fR files and privileges. Usually run once.
.TP
\fByardctl check\fR
Comprehensive check for environment readiness (Docker socket access, doas/sudo presence, Git versions, etc.).
.TP
\fByardctl doctor\fR
Run a quick health check of all yardctl prerequisites.
.TP
\fByardctl status\fR
Print a fast summary of tracked repositories, deployed stacks, component versions, and running containers.
.TP
\fByardctl purge [ \-f ]\fR
Revert the actions of \fByardctl init\fR safely. Destroys configurations and uninstalls timers.
.SS "Repositories"
.TP
\fByardctl repo add\fR \fI<url> \fR[\fB\-b\fR \fIbranch\fR]
Clone a new template repository containing Docker Compose files. 
.TP
\fByardctl repo list\fR
List tracked templates.
.TP
\fByardctl repo remove\fR \fI<name>\fR
Stop tracking the specified repository.
.TP
\fByardctl repo sync\fR
Pull the latest commits for all templates and re-evaluate Docker stack availabilities.
.SS "Stacks"
.TP
\fByardctl stack list\fR
Show all composed orchestrations yardctl has found in your attached git repos.
.TP
\fByardctl stack info\fR \fI<stack>\fR
Show detailed location and deployment data for a specific compose stack.
.TP
\fByardctl stack deploy\fR \fI<stack>\fR
Deploy/Up the specified stack.
.TP
\fByardctl stack destroy\fR \fI<stack>\fR
Stop and remove all containers for the specified stack.
.SS "Fast Docker Wrappers"
.TP
\fByardctl sync\fR
Alias for \fByardctl repo sync\fR.
.TP
\fByardctl deploy\fR \fI<stack>\fR
Alias for \fByardctl stack deploy\fR.
.TP
\fByardctl ps\fR [\fIstack\fR]
List running containers, globally across all tools or inside a specific stack.
.TP
\fByardctl logs\fR \fI<stack>\fR [\fIservice\fR] [\fB\-f\fR]
Tail the logs of a launched stack's components.
.TP
\fByardctl exec\fR \fI<stack>\fR \fI<service>\fR [\fIcommand...\fR]
Spawn a transparent process inside a running container, e.g., \fByardctl exec api db psql\fR.
.TP
\fByardctl restart\fR \fI<stack>\fR [\fIservice\fR]
Restart the deployed containers.
.TP
\fByardctl events\fR
Stream standard Docker daemon lifecycle events.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The main configuration is located at \fB/etc/yardctl/config.json\fR.
.B yardctl config edit
will automatically shell into your $EDITOR for rapid tweaks, but changes should mostly happen via CLI commands.
.SH AUTHORS
Written and maintained by Unix/Linux enthusiasts. For more, see https://github.com/Nixie404/yardctl.
